Emerging technology is a term generally used to describe a new technology, but it may also refer to the continuing development of an existing technology; it can have slightly different meaning when used in different areas, such as media, business, science, or education.

We are task to list at least five (5) Emerging Technologies that contributes to the Educational System and the IT Industry.

1. Artificial Intelligence
	AI Helps users in getting their request of information faster rather than searching it on the web, it can solve complex calculations and can be content-based, meaning, it can follow the conversation with the kind of AI you are using. 
	It's almost impossible to seek for a school or university that is not using AI on their everyday lives, they use it on their assignments, they seek help with the complex questions they need to answer or generate long essays that they are too lazy to answer. Of course it is also well known to the IT industry as they are the ones who invented this thing. Most of the programmers today uses AI to complete their projects and they even made one kind of AI that does the whole project just by prompting what your project is all about, and in matter of minutes, you can get your own project. But regardless of the intentions, still, AI is present in this time and it depends on the users on how they will use that tool.
	For Example, in school, a student is not very good at grammar and they have an essay assignment that they need to pass tomorrow, he can use AI tools to correct his mistakes and make his essay presentable and grammatically correct. In work, a programmer, although proficient in coding, when working with multiple programming languages, they tend to mix syntax and lines of code. They will use AI to search for alternatives or compatible solutions with the difficulties they are facing so that they can work efficiently and remember the correct syntaxes.


2. Internet of things
	Through embedding internet with the devices we use before, it can be more reliant to access information, especially for those who are still taking their studies or working from their homes as it was the part of norms nowadays, or what they call "Working From Home".
	Students that have devices such as laptops and mobile phones are used to attend classes and able to continue their studies, access their learning resources that can help them to study, but they have the option not to use their phones in attending online classes. IT people also used their own devices to still work in the industry, although remote working is done before, but it was for their employees overseas, but now, even if their employees are in the same place, they still have the option to work at their own home. And even pandemic rate is at the lowest today, the practice that was done during those time is still applicable today.
	For example, a student which has only a year to graduate, and he/she has a phone that can use to attend classes to finish the remaining year. An IT developer did not belong to the layoffs done by the company, and he has a computer in his home, he can use it to still work even in their homes.

3. 5G Internet
	Internet is considered as one crucial resource nowaday, and people are trying to improve it, that it reached to the point where it reached 5G. The known fastest internet speed in the world. It can send data from a place to another much faster than 4G can do, it can reach larger areas and broader areas.
	Because it is just very recent, there are devices that are produced to use 5G that other old models cannot, so still it is not an oppoturtunity to all. But if purchased one, you can enjoy it's great service. For students, they can use internet much faster without hassle, browse much faster so they can do their assignments without the hassle before of waiting too much time for their internet service to provide the links or resources they want to see. For Workers, they can work much faster and meet with their teammates online and smoothly almost no delay because of 5G. Meet with their boss or watch youtube tutorials on how to use pointers in C++.
	For example, there are such devices that are called "5G Compatible" which are, I think from 2022 model onwards. Which can students use to avail 5G internet services, brand new smarthphones and iphones are compatible with that. Or if you noticed, in the school, your own home or in your office, there is a wifi network (if it's in default) , that there is a "5G" in it's network name, i.e. "Huawei-5G". Still, the level of internet speed is upgrading but this is the fastest one to exist that almost everybody can experience.
	

4. Mobile Money
	One of the most difficulties in trading during pandemic is buying something online, and the danger of touching the money physically can make you sick, because of the virus that can stick on the money. Even though Cashless Transactions like using credit card or debit is used before, but only for those who have the ability to avail those kind of service are the ones who are enjoying it. 	
	It is essential today even after pandemic as it was considered as a kind of transaction. Money transfer are very fluid and faster and without the danger of the virus getting on the money. It is much more secured because this is a transactional record and very flexible, you can receive your payment or your budget for your everyday life as a student or a worker. It maybe used to buy your school supplies to use for everyday purposes, pay your rent, bills, utilies and etc. Workers can use to pay bills also and order online and the online software tools and things they need in their respective work. Depending on the purpose, still the Mobile Money service is a trend.
	For example, Gcash, a kind of mobile money service that serves Filipinos during pandemic and even after pandemic. Students and Workers use this service to pay their utitilies, even on the one who is reading this, I know you are familiar with the use of Gcash so it is not hard to explain.

5. 3D printing
	3D printing makes real objects from digital designs. It lets you quickly make prototypes, customize things, and create complex shapes that are hard or impossible with traditional methods. Using softwares like CAD of 3D Printing dedicated softwares, you can build your own thing and print it 3D. 
	It students with a tangible way to understand concepts from various subjects, such as science, engineering, and art. They can create models, prototypes, and experiments to visualize abstract ideas. IT workers can create physical prototypes of hardware components, software interfaces, or electronic devices to test functionality, user experience and especially in ergonomics to demonstrate physically how comfortable and good their design is.
	For example, students in a biology class can print 3D models of human organs to better understand their anatomy and function. While a developer can print a physical model of a user interface to test its usability and ergonomics before launching the product. This can be used to see and assess all points to be considered before turing the product to the market for production with the approval of QA and others.
